One of the benefits of xstate is that you
could actually visualize these machines.
And so if we click xstate.js.org/viz,
you'll see an example over here.
This is the default
machine that's created and
you'll see a representation of this
machine right here in the visualizer.
So in fact, let's take a look at this
service machine and invisualize it.
I'm just gonna copy, well, everything
except the creates over here just
because that's newer syntax, and
I'm gonna put that right over here.
So now when we click Update it
will show us our feedback form.
Now what's great about this is is you
could actually play around with this
visualization.
So if I click that, we can see visually
that it goes to the form states.
If I click Submit over here,
we could see that it goes to thanks, and
then once I click Close,
it goes to closed which is a final state.
Which you might remember means
nothing happens in this state,
so we can't really exit from the state.
If you click Reset,
the entire service resets.
Now there's two panels here besides
the definition on the machine where
you could copy paste
the machine's definition.
There's this date over here which shows
you which state you're currently on.
So if I click Good, it takes you to
the value thanks and changes to closed.
There's also the events tab over here too,
so
you could record what events happened
to get to your current state.
Additionally, if you do want to
add payload to your events you
could do so here.
You could click the Events Type that
you want and then you could add any
sort of payload over here and
go ahead and send that event.
So you'll see that this clicked
events with hello world and
the payload was sent, and
it took you right to the thanks state.
So remember right now when you're
copying machines over to the visualizer,
don't put create machine just put machine.
Once the visualizer is updated you'll
be able to use the latest xstate
features in it.